STREAMR NETWORK OPEN SOURCE LICENSE
-----------------------------------

PREAMBLE

This software is licensed under the Streamr Network Open 
Source License. The Streamr Network Open Source License is 
based on the GNU Affero General Public License, version 3 
(19 November 2007), but it contains a few additional 
limitations and requirements.

The main addition is the introduction of operating parameters 
which apply to the software. These parameters may induce the 
use of specific cryptographic tokens (such as the Streamr
DATAcoin) in the operations of the Streamr Network. Doing so 
protects the considerable effort already undertaken by the
Streamr community.

These license terms allow you to create, modify and propagate 
new versions of the Streamr Network software (“Program”). Any
copy or modified version shall always comply with certain 
network operating parameters, as amended from time to time. 
In a manner to be determined in the future, it is Streamr’s 
intention to decentralize the governance and decision-making 
processes relating to the network operating parameters. The 
Streamr Network is also available under a proprietary 
commercial license pursuant to a dual licensing scheme. 
Please contact Streamr directly at contact@streamr.network if 
you are interested in such a proprietary license. 

ADDITIONAL TERMS

1. These additional terms (“Additional Terms”) shall be in 
addition to and have precedence over the GNU Affero General 
Public License, Version 3 (“License Terms”). The License Terms 
shall be deemed to be incorporated herein as a material part 
of these Additional Terms. Any capitalized terms herein shall 
have the meaning given to them in the License Terms. 

2. Unless explicitly otherwise stated in these Additional 
Terms, the License Terms shall be applicable on and govern 
your use, modification and propagation of the Program. 

3. Definitions:

    a. “Supported Parameters” means the operating parameters 
    of the Program that are indicated in the smart contract 
    pointed to by Ethereum Name Service (ENS) registry entry 
    network-parameters.streamr.eth from time to time. 
    
    b. “Reference Versions” means the minimum version number 
    of the Program that is indicated in the Supported Parameters 
    as well as any newer version of the Program (as indicated 
    by a higher version number). 
    
    c. “DATA” means the Streamr DATAcoin cryptographic token, 
    in each case as set out in and as supported by the Supported 
    Parameters from time to time.
    
4. Subject to Section 5, any modified version of the Program 
shall incorporate and implement all of, and only operate in
accordance with, the Supported Parameters, as implemented in 
the Reference Versions. For the avoidance of doubt, as an 
example, if the modified version involves the use of crypto-
graphic tokens (such as DATA), such tokens must be set out in
the Supported Parameters. Any breach of this Section 4 is 
considered a material breach of these Additional Terms. 

5. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4, 
modification and propagation of the Program for development 
and testing purposes (meaning e.g., creation of small-scale 
prototypes or proofs of concept) is allowed without implementing 
the Supported Parameters; provided, however, that the use of 
such modified version shall be limited only to the time period 
necessary for such development or testing purposes. 

6. Any violation or breach of these Additional Terms shall be 
deemed a violation or breach of the License Terms.
